docs/community/support.md, before:

---
id: support
title: Where To Get Support
layout: community
sectionid: community
permalink: community/support.html
redirect_from: "support.html"
---

**React** is worked on full-time by Facebook's product infrastructure and Instagram's user interface engineering teams. They're often around and available for questions.

## Stack Overflow

Many members of the community use Stack Overflow to ask questions. Read through the [existing questions](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/reactjs) tagged with **reactjs** or [ask your own](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/ask?tags=reactjs)!

## Discussion forum

For longer-form conversations about React, we've set up a [discussion forum at **discuss.reactjs.org**](https://discuss.reactjs.org/). This forum is a great place for discussion about best practices and application architecture as well as the future of React. If you have an answerable code-level question, please post it to Stack Overflow instead.

In the forum there's also a category for job posts and a category for discussion of our weekly meeting notes.

## Reactiflux Chat

If you need an answer right away, check out the [Reactiflux Discord](https://discord.gg/0ZcbPKXt5bZjGY5n) community. There are usually a number of React experts there who can help out or point you to somewhere you might want to look.

## Freenode IRC

Many developers also hang out in [#reactjs on Freenode](http://irc.lc/freenode/reactjs).

## Facebook and Twitter

For the latest news about React, [like us on Facebook](https://facebook.com/react) and [follow **@reactjs** on Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactjs). In addition, you can use the [#reactjs](https://twitter.com/hashtag/reactjs) hashtag to see what others are saying or add to the conversation.

<div><a class="twitter-timeline" data-dnt="true" data-chrome="nofooter noheader transparent" href="https://twitter.com/search?q=%23reactjs" data-widget-id="342522405270470656"></a></div>

Commit message:

Add link to React community on Hashnode (#10874)
* Add link to React community on Hashnode

React community on Hashnode has more than 10K followers. It'd be nice if we can point developers to this place.

* Consistency in heading + remove the sales pitch-y bit

docs/community/support.md, after:

---
id: support
title: Where To Get Support
layout: community
sectionid: community
permalink: community/support.html
redirect_from: "support.html"
---

**React** is worked on full-time by Facebook's product infrastructure and Instagram's user interface engineering teams. They're often around and available for questions.

## Stack Overflow

Many members of the community use Stack Overflow to ask questions. Read through the [existing questions](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/reactjs) tagged with **reactjs** or [ask your own](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/ask?tags=reactjs)!

## Discussion Forum

For longer-form conversations about React, we've set up a [discussion forum at **discuss.reactjs.org**](https://discuss.reactjs.org/). This forum is a great place for discussion about best practices and application architecture as well as the future of React. If you have an answerable code-level question, please post it to Stack Overflow instead.

In the forum there's also a category for job posts and a category for discussion of our weekly meeting notes.

## React Community on Hashnode

[Hashnode's React node](https://hashnode.com/n/reactjs) is a great place to stay up-to-date with React discussion, news and stories.

## Reactiflux Chat

If you need an answer right away, check out the [Reactiflux Discord](https://discord.gg/0ZcbPKXt5bZjGY5n) community. There are usually a number of React experts there who can help out or point you to somewhere you might want to look.

## Freenode IRC

Many developers also hang out in [#reactjs on Freenode](http://irc.lc/freenode/reactjs).

## Facebook and Twitter

For the latest news about React, [like us on Facebook](https://facebook.com/react) and [follow **@reactjs** on Twitter](https://twitter.com/reactjs). In addition, you can use the [#reactjs](https://twitter.com/hashtag/reactjs) hashtag to see what others are saying or add to the conversation.

<div><a class="twitter-timeline" data-dnt="true" data-chrome="nofooter noheader transparent" href="https://twitter.com/search?q=%23reactjs" data-widget-id="342522405270470656"></a></div>
