docs/docs/getting-started.md, before:

---
id: getting-started
title: Getting Started
next: tutorial.html
redirect_from: "docs/index.html"
---

## JSFiddle

The easiest way to start hacking on React is using the following JSFiddle Hello World examples:

 * **[React JSFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/reactjs/69z2wepo/)**
 * [React JSFiddle without JSX](https://jsfiddle.net/reactjs/5vjqabv3/)

## Using React from npm

We recommend using React with a CommonJS module system like [browserify](http://browserify.org/) or [webpack](https://webpack.github.io/). Use the [`react`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react) and [`react-dom`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-dom) npm packages.

```js
// main.js
var React = require('react');
var ReactDOM = require('react-dom');

ReactDOM.render(
  <h1>Hello, world!</h1>,
  document.getElementById('example')
);
```

To install React DOM and build your bundle with browserify:

```sh
$ npm install --save react react-dom babelify babel-preset-react
$ browserify -t [ babelify --presets [ react ] ] main.js -o bundle.js
```

To install React DOM and build your bundle with webpack:  

```sh
$ npm install --save react react-dom babel-preset-react
$ webpack
```

> Note:
>
> If you are using ES2015, you will want to also use the `babel-preset-es2015` package.


## Quick Start Without npm

If you're not ready to use npm yet, you can download the starter kit which includes prebuilt copies of React and React DOM.

<div class="buttons-unit downloads">
  <a href="/react/downloads/react-{{site.react_version}}.zip" class="button">
    Download Starter Kit {{site.react_version}}
  </a>
</div>

In the root directory of the starter kit, create a `helloworld.html` with the following contents.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <title>Hello React!</title>
    <script src="build/react.js"></script>
    <script src="build/react-dom.js"></script>
    <script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/babel-core/5.8.23/browser.min.js"></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="example"></div>
    <script type="text/babel">
      ReactDOM.render(
        <h1>Hello, world!</h1>,
        document.getElementById('example')
      );
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

The XML syntax inside of JavaScript is called JSX; check out the [JSX syntax](/react/docs/jsx-in-depth.html) to learn more about it. In order to translate it to vanilla JavaScript we use `<script type="text/babel">` and include Babel to actually perform the transformation in the browser.

### Separate File

Your React JSX code can live in a separate file. Create the following `src/helloworld.js`.

```javascript
ReactDOM.render(
  <h1>Hello, world!</h1>,
  document.getElementById('example')
);
```

Then reference it from `helloworld.html`:

```html{10}
<script type="text/babel" src="src/helloworld.js"></script>
```

Note that some browsers (Chrome, e.g.) will fail to load the file unless it's served via HTTP.

### Offline Transform

First install the [Babel](http://babeljs.io/) command-line tools (requires [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)):

```
npm install --global babel-cli
npm install babel-preset-react
```

Then, translate your `src/helloworld.js` file to plain JavaScript:

```
babel --presets react src --watch --out-dir build
```

> Note:
>
> If you are using ES2015, you will want to also use the `babel-preset-es2015` package.

The file `build/helloworld.js` is autogenerated whenever you make a change. Read the [Babel CLI documentation](http://babeljs.io/docs/usage/cli/) for more advanced usage.

```javascript{2}
ReactDOM.render(
  React.createElement('h1', null, 'Hello, world!'),
  document.getElementById('example')
);
```


Update your HTML file as below:

```html{8,12}
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <title>Hello React!</title>
    <script src="build/react.js"></script>
    <script src="build/react-dom.js"></script>
    <!-- No need for Babel! -->
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="example"></div>
    <script src="build/helloworld.js"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

## Next Steps

Check out [the tutorial](/react/docs/tutorial.html) and the other examples in the starter kit's `examples` directory to learn more.

We also have a wiki where the community contributes with [workflows, UI-components, routing, data management etc.](https://github.com/facebook/react/wiki/Complementary-Tools)

Good luck, and welcome!

Commit message:

Improve documentation for using React with Webpack
Fixes #5679

docs/docs/getting-started.md, after:

---
id: getting-started
title: Getting Started
next: tutorial.html
redirect_from: "docs/index.html"
---

## JSFiddle

The easiest way to start hacking on React is using the following JSFiddle Hello World examples:

 * **[React JSFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/reactjs/69z2wepo/)**
 * [React JSFiddle without JSX](https://jsfiddle.net/reactjs/5vjqabv3/)

## Using React from npm

We recommend using React with a CommonJS module system like [browserify](http://browserify.org/) or [webpack](https://webpack.github.io/). Use the [`react`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react) and [`react-dom`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/react-dom) npm packages.

```js
// main.js
var React = require('react');
var ReactDOM = require('react-dom');

ReactDOM.render(
  <h1>Hello, world!</h1>,
  document.getElementById('example')
);
```

To install React DOM and build your bundle with browserify:

```sh
$ npm install --save react react-dom babelify babel-preset-react
$ browserify -t [ babelify --presets [ react ] ] main.js -o bundle.js
```

To install React DOM and build your bundle with webpack:

```sh
$ npm install --save react react-dom babel-preset-react
$ webpack
```

> Note:
>
> If you are using ES2015, you will want to also use the `babel-preset-es2015` package.

**Note:** by default, React will be in development mode, which is slower, and not advised for production. To use React in production mode, set the environment variable `NODE_ENV` to `production` (using envify or webpack's DefinePlugin). For example:

```js
new webpack.DefinePlugin({
  "process.env": {
    NODE_ENV: JSON.stringify("production")
  }
});
```

## Quick Start Without npm

If you're not ready to use npm yet, you can download the starter kit which includes prebuilt copies of React and React DOM.

<div class="buttons-unit downloads">
  <a href="/react/downloads/react-{{site.react_version}}.zip" class="button">
    Download Starter Kit {{site.react_version}}
  </a>
</div>

In the root directory of the starter kit, create a `helloworld.html` with the following contents.

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <title>Hello React!</title>
    <script src="build/react.js"></script>
    <script src="build/react-dom.js"></script>
    <script src="https://cdnjs.cloudflare.com/ajax/libs/babel-core/5.8.23/browser.min.js"></script>
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="example"></div>
    <script type="text/babel">
      ReactDOM.render(
        <h1>Hello, world!</h1>,
        document.getElementById('example')
      );
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```

The XML syntax inside of JavaScript is called JSX; check out the [JSX syntax](/react/docs/jsx-in-depth.html) to learn more about it. In order to translate it to vanilla JavaScript we use `<script type="text/babel">` and include Babel to actually perform the transformation in the browser.

### Separate File

Your React JSX code can live in a separate file. Create the following `src/helloworld.js`.

```javascript
ReactDOM.render(
  <h1>Hello, world!</h1>,
  document.getElementById('example')
);
```

Then reference it from `helloworld.html`:

```html{10}
<script type="text/babel" src="src/helloworld.js"></script>
```

Note that some browsers (Chrome, e.g.) will fail to load the file unless it's served via HTTP.

### Offline Transform

First install the [Babel](http://babeljs.io/) command-line tools (requires [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/)):

```
npm install --global babel-cli
npm install babel-preset-react
```

Then, translate your `src/helloworld.js` file to plain JavaScript:

```
babel --presets react src --watch --out-dir build
```

> Note:
>
> If you are using ES2015, you will want to also use the `babel-preset-es2015` package.

The file `build/helloworld.js` is autogenerated whenever you make a change. Read the [Babel CLI documentation](http://babeljs.io/docs/usage/cli/) for more advanced usage.

```javascript{2}
ReactDOM.render(
  React.createElement('h1', null, 'Hello, world!'),
  document.getElementById('example')
);
```


Update your HTML file as below:

```html{8,12}
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <meta charset="UTF-8" />
    <title>Hello React!</title>
    <script src="build/react.js"></script>
    <script src="build/react-dom.js"></script>
    <!-- No need for Babel! -->
  </head>
  <body>
    <div id="example"></div>
    <script src="build/helloworld.js"></script>
  </body>
</html>
```

## Next Steps

Check out [the tutorial](/react/docs/tutorial.html) and the other examples in the starter kit's `examples` directory to learn more.

We also have a wiki where the community contributes with [workflows, UI-components, routing, data management etc.](https://github.com/facebook/react/wiki/Complementary-Tools)

Good luck, and welcome!
